Interestingly, Emerson is one of only five tennis players all-time to win multiple slam sets in two disciplines, only matched by Frank Sedgman, Margaret Court, Martina Navratilova and Serena Williams.
Emerson anonymously published his first essay, "Nature", on September 9, 1836.
Emerson was also a member of a record eight Davis Cup winning teams between 1959 and 1967.
Emerson scored one goal during the tournament, in Brazil's 7–0 win in its opening group match against Venezuela.
Emerson made a name for himself in his native Brazil playing for Grêmio, where he won two state championships, two Brazilian Cups, one Brazilian Championship and one Copa Libertadores.
Emerson's 12 singles and 16 doubles titles make him one of the leading players in Grand Slam tournament history.
Emerson wrote most of his important essays as lectures first and then revised them for print.
Together with "Nature", these essays made the decade from the mid-1830s to the mid-1840s Emerson's most fertile period.
The following year, Emerson won the 1999 Copa América with Brazil, as Brazil overcame Uruguay in the final.
In the Tennis Channel series "100 Greatest of All Time" in 2012, Emerson was ranked the 11th greatest male tennis player of all time, and the second highest rated Australian in the series, behind Rod Laver.
Emerson toured Europe in 1833 and later wrote of his travels in English Traits (1856).
An experienced footballer who was nicknamed the Puma due to his powerful but elegant, ball-winning style of play, Emerson has played for two Brazilian clubs, Grêmio and Santos.
From 1963 to 1967, Emerson won five consecutive men's singles titles at the Australian Championships.
Emerson was intended to be the original captain for Brazil's 2002 World Cup team, but he suffered an unfortunate injury in training before the first match of the tournament, dislocating his shoulder when attempting to parry a shot by a teammate.
Emerson was born on a farm in Blackbutt, Queensland.
Emerson's final Grand Slam doubles title was won in 1971 at Wimbledon (partnering Laver).
Emerson scored his first double for Brazil on 23 February 2000 in a friendly match in Bangkok against Thailand, which Brazil won 7-0.
In March 1837, Emerson gave a series of lectures on the philosophy of history at the Masonic Temple in Boston.
In addition to his Brazilian passport, Emerson also holds Italian, German and Qatari passports.
Emerson was excluded from the starting line-up in Brazil's quarter-final match due to injury.
Emerson wrote of his grief in the poem "Threnody" ("For this losing is true dying"), and the essay "Experience".
In a speech in Concord, Massachusetts on May 3, 1851, Emerson denounced the Fugitive Slave Act.
Emerson had 10 straight victories in Grand Slam tournament finals in which he appeared, which remains an all-time record.
Around this time, in 1860, Emerson published The Conduct of Life, his seventh collection of essays.
Emerson's first Wimbledon singles title came in 1964, with a final victory over Fred Stolle.
Carlyle in particular was a strong influence on him; Emerson would later serve as an unofficial literary agent in the United States for Carlyle, and in March 1835, he tried to persuade Carlyle to come to America to lecture.
Emerson was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1982 and the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1986.
Emerson scored his second international goal on 31 March 1999, in a friendly match against Japan in Tokyo, which Brazil won 2-0.
Emerson made his Brazil debut on 10 September 1997, in a home friendly match against Ecuador, in Salvador, Bahia, also scoring a goal in the match, as Brazil went on to win 4-2.
In 1841 Emerson published Essays, his second book, which included the famous essay "Self-Reliance".